In this chapter, the narrator explains how princes can acquire new principalities by their own strength or fortune. He discusses two kinds of states: republics and principalities. First, people will be willing to trade an established ruler for one that is better than the current one; second, they will want to protect the family from any outsider who wants to conquer the state. The first problem is that it is difficult to maintain control when the people are familiar with each other's family. Second, there is a difficulty in maintaining control over another country because the people have different language and culture. Finally, if all the citizens live in the same city as the former prince--that is, under the same customs and languages--they will be less likely to revolt against the new prince. If the old prince lives in a colony, then his subjects will be more likely to fear him since they do not need military occupation. A prince needs to understand warcraft and statecraft before he can hold a government. Princes must understand both types of warfare. One way to manage a state involves a "principal" and a minister. While these two men help govern, no one remains subservience to them. Another way to take over countries is to allow governments to maintain their own laws but charge taxes. This allows the newly acquired state to keep its own laws while charging taxes and creating an oligchy. It is also easier to rule a kingdom governed by nobles because they command the support of their subjects instead of being corrupted through foreign powers. Once the state has been destroyed, rebels will revive ancient institutions and ideas of liberty. As long as the goals are not to destroy the state, however, it is easy to establish a new monarch. Private citizens who become princes by good fortune are weak because they lack a solid basis for holding power. They don't know how to handle problems, command soldiers, or keep up their power in order to avoid opposing the new ruling party. When someone becomes a prince, he cannot use force to gain power. But unless he uses cruelty, retribution will eventually fade. Most importantly, a man should treat his subjects according to the way they treat themselves. For example, king Agathoples of Syracuse was able to rise to power through criminal acts, but only using cruelty at the beginning of his rule
