
summary: the narrator explains how people can conquer new monarchies. He uses examples from the Roman Empire to illustrate his point that there are two kinds of governments: Republics and Monarchies. New monarchies are either completely new or kind of new. The idea is that when you conquer a new monarchy, it'll be easier for you to get rid of old monarchies than it is for someone else to take over. If you have an army that can't manage the new territory by themselves, people will rebel at first because they don't know how to deal with the new rulers. This means that even if your new land doesn't speak the same language like the other kingdoms, people won't hate you. You can move to another part of the world and make colonies, which are cheaper and more secure than armies. That way, no foreigners will come in and ruin your new country. Next, you should become "the guardian Angel" for the weak countries around your new territory. This is a good strategy because it makes sure that foreign powers do not try to invade and cramp your style. When Louis was trying to take Milan, he didn't help his neighbors. He helped two stronger states into the neighborhood; he helped the Pope Alexander invade Romegna and carry the King of Spaniards into Naples. Now, we're back to the topic of how difficult it would be to hold onto new lands. There are only two types of government: kings and non-elective barons. The king has real power, so Turkey is pretty easy to conquer. On the plus side though, once you take over, ruling is something of a cake since there's no baron who wants to challenge you after the king dies. Another example of this type of government is France, where Barons often go back long enough to find out what's going on. So now we've got three options: burn down all of these places and live there, pay taxes, create a tiny government, or destroy them altogether.
	we're introduced to a number of different types of rulers. Some are lucky, some are just lucky, and some are not so lucky at all. The first example is Hiero, who was made a dude because people needed a new leader. But after that, he got rid of his old army, broke off the other ones, and stayed in his new kingdom. For those who got their land by sheer luck or buying it, here's the good news: you now have some territory. The second example is Cesare Bjoria, whom he lost because his father tricked him into getting it for him when he died. This guy killed all of his enemies and set up a "court of locals" to punish anyone who tried to challenge him. Now we've got two more examples of how regular Joes can become rulers through crime and being made King by everybody else. First, we get an example of a bad guy named Agatcholes. He became the president of the army but then decided to become king. Everyone was too afraid of this crazy man to even try to mess with him. Next, we move to modern times with a guy named oliverotto. His uncle gave him fancy food, clothes, and works, so he went back to Fermemo and told his uncle to put a big party for him. When he arrived, if everyone knew he was there, they would kill him. After this bloody event, figured out that he had been chosen as the new king offermo.
	The narrator tells us that the new king has three options to choose from: monarchy, republic, or anarchy--the first is where the nobles get power and the second is where people get power. If the people want to become absolute ruler, then they need to give direct command to other people who have power over them. The problem with this situation is that the people don't always trust the most trustworthy person, so everything is going in flames before you know it. So make sure your kingdom needs all the help you can get, because no one will ever be able to defend it. The next topic is church states--popes are becoming more and more powerful as the church grows stronger. This means that popes now rule for ten years instead of just a few. It turns out that Pope Julius VI's dad got his son Cesare Bjoria some land when he was kidnapped by Pope Leo. Since the pope didn't really care what happened to the land, he gave it to Julius II, who took control of it.
	the narrator explains how important it is to become a king or queen. If you're not ready for war, then you'll just be pathetic. He tells us to stop thinking about war and start getting ready for it. This is all about "cold hard reality," which means that princes don't really want to be good in the first place. Princes have to fight and get real. They can do awesome things, but they won't make great rulers because they aren't willing to wage war. The only way to make a good ruler is to act like a Disney prince while doing all the other stuff that needs to be done in order to form a government. So, here's what we mean by "don't be generosity." It's more important to be generous than nice so that people hate you. And compassion doesn't work very well with the kind of warlike emperor who wants to destroy a country. We also learn that there's no reason why an insanely cruel guy named Hannibar was super awesome when he was murdered by a conspirator. You should always be careful not to go too wild. Just like our animal side and our human side, we need to figure out when we've got to change our strategies. As long as your kingdom prospers, people will think that you were one of the best guys ever. But if you try to rule without being hated, you might end up being a hypocrite.
	the narrator explains some of the most important ideas in the book. First, he tells us that rulers should not get too angry by the people because they're more powerful than we are. Second, a ruler should take away guns and divide town into factions. Third, if there's a war between two neighboring kingdoms, it's best to win it. If you lose, then you can plot revenge together. This is one of the first things he talks about in this chapter. He says that if you choose the right minister, everyone will think how smart you want to be for choosing such an awesome minister. The second thing he says is to make sure that your ministers know that you're the decider when you ask them for advice. Finally, his last point is to remember that good advice doesn't always work out as well as bad advice does. So here's what he ends with: "When in doubt...be impulsive."
	Lorenzo pleads with Pedringano to take up arms against Italy, but Petrarch has already done so. He leaves with a patriot's letter saying that he would like to rule Italy for as long as possible.
